Thank you, everyone, for your time today.
Just a quick recap of our agenda.
We're going to be starting talking about some of the challenges that data science teams
face and how RStudio products can help tackle those challenges, and how those challenges
then help drive people to consider moving to the cloud.
And so then we'll talk about some of the different cloud options that are out there, hosted services,
working with a VPC provider such as Azure or AWS, cloud marketplace offerings, and doing
data science in your data lake.
And then I'll hand off to Kevin to do a deep dive on some of the factors that you should
consider when you are considering deploying your software to a VPC.
Then we'll wrap up and have time for as many questions as we can.
And as Sam said, any questions we don't get to today, we'll have a follow-up thread on
our community site to continue the discussion there.
So we've talked to many data science teams in a large variety of organizations over the
years.
And what we've heard from many of them is that a lot of data science teams fail to live
up to their full promise of what they're trying to achieve, what the organization is hoping,
the value that the organization is hoping to get from this team.
And there's lots of reasons for that.
And these reasons tend to group, based on our conversations with, again, many data science
teams, tend to group into a few different areas.
Perhaps teams have trouble creating insights.
Perhaps they have trouble, once they have actually created those insights, to actually
use those insights to impact decision-making in the organization, because ultimately, if
you've got a better way to do things or a better way to make a decision, it only actually
matters if that gets implemented and that actually impacts your organization.
Or sometimes teams have the greatest challenges around actually maintaining and improving
this value over time, that they get some insights, they create decision-making, but then it fades.
Maybe they find it difficult to maintain.
So there are many different reasons, many different challenges that go into these different
areas and things that teams need to overcome.
Today we're going to be focusing on this third column, that siloed teams lead to often
redundant work, make collaboration difficult.
They may spend too much time maintaining tools or too much time re-running analyses because
teams can't easily deploy self-service applications.
Or perhaps it takes too much manual effort to deploy and maintain these systems.
And I'm focusing on these because these are the items that are often addressed by centralizing
your data science and or moving it to the cloud.
So what we found is that customers who have successfully scaled their data science team
and the work that they do and impacted their organization tend to focus on three key attributes
of their data science environment, open source, code-oriented, and centralized.
And again, in this session, we'll focus on the centralized and cloud aspect.
Open source, of course, is a key part of our studio's mission, and we find it critical
because it eases recruiting and retention and training for new people and it's comprehensive
and interoperable.
Code-oriented is a key part of our studio's philosophy of data science because code is
flexible.
It doesn't have black box constraints and code by its nature is easy to iterate and
reuse and extend and inspect.
But again, in this session, we'll focus on the centralized and cloud aspects because
centralizing your data science helps reduce unnecessary work for the data science team,
makes it easier to collaborate across that team, providing a common way of deploying
self-service applications to your stakeholders, helps inform them, helps drive decision making
and impact that in the organization.
And of course, if you're working with open source tools like R and Python, finding some
consistent way to manage all the data science packages and manage the versions of that is
critical.
And often that's easiest if you centralize that so that it's common across both your
development and deployment environments.
Now these three key aspects, open source, code-oriented, and centralized, are key aspects
of what we call serious data science.
And we call this serious data science because this approach typically enables a data scientist
to tackle the complex, difficult, and at least initially often ill-defined problems that
can really provide value and novel insights in an organization.
Now the two leading languages in open source data science are, of course, R and Python.
But on their own, R and Python certainly provide the open source and code-oriented aspects,
but they don't out of the box on their own make it easy to centralize your data science
or deploy it to the cloud.
And that's where RStudio's commercial products come in.
Our products support the development and deployment of data science with both R and
Python.
And we have a modular platform called RStudio Team that helps you centralize your data science
in an enterprise-friendly way, providing security and scalability, et cetera.
And so let's just talk about that briefly.
Now what does a data science team actually need to do?
Well there's two things that they typically need to do in part of their work.
They need to create insights, and then they need to find a way of sharing those insights
to impact decision-making in the organization.
And so typically when they create insights, they're using some sort of data science workbench,
some way where they can use their IDE of choice, whether it's Jupyter Notebooks or the RStudio
IDE or VS Code, all in a single location, use those different development environments
to create various data products using R and Python.
These typically are tailored applications or reports or APIs.
We call these tailored because they're not off the shelf, they're not black box, but
they're focused on the problem at hand, focused on providing the exact information that a
decision-maker needs in their day-to-day work.
And that's one of the big advantages, of course, of a code-oriented approach.
You don't have any arbitrary limitations.
You can focus on what your stakeholders need.
And of course, once they create these interactive applications or reports or APIs, they need
a way of publishing them, a way of sharing them.
And so typically they can publish these to a deployment portal, and once this is available
in a deployment portal, the data science team can now share these insights to impact decision-making.
And this typically takes the form of an interactive web application, say a Shiny application that
can be shared with a decision-maker, or an automated email report that can be sent to
the decision-maker with the analysis right within it, so they have that data within their
inbox.
Or perhaps they create APIs that can be integrated into other systems for automated decision-making.
And it's critical for both these areas, for both the development side and the deployment
side, that you have a way of managing your open source packages, because this eases maintenance
and reproducibility.
And this, of course, is where our products come in.
RStudio Server Pro provides that centralized data science workbench with a variety of different
development environments.
RStudio Connect provides that deployment portal where you can share your applications and
APIs with your decision-makers and other systems.
And these may take the form of Shiny, RMarkdown, Plumber APIs, also a number of different Python
frameworks that we support, things like Streamlet and Bokeh.
And it's critical for both of these that you have a way of managing packages, and that's
where RStudio Package Manager comes in.
And it's these three products, RStudio Server Pro, Connect, and Package Manager, that make
up our RStudio team bundle.
And of course, it's critical that this all integrates with standard systems in your organization.
Kevin will be talking a lot more about a few of these, especially Kubernetes moving forward.
But the critical idea here is there's a lot of benefits to centralizing your data science.
And many, many of our customers do exactly this on-prem.
And so the question is, what then drives people to want to go to the cloud?
There's several different reasons.
One key reason is simply simplifying and reducing the startup cost for a new data science team,
that when an organization is spinning up a new team, cloud is often a way to really get
that team, get the resources that team needs going quickly.
Perhaps they want to make collaboration or instruction, say workshops or classes, between
organizations or groups easier.
Cloud's a great way of doing that.
Perhaps they want to mitigate the high cost of maintaining their own computing infrastructure.
This was one of the primary drivers originally for organizations to move to the cloud.
It is still a major factor.
Closely aligned to that is scaling to meet variable demand.
That if the demand for your computations, for your data science computations is highly
variable, you don't want to keep a bunch of expensive computing infrastructure sitting
around idle.
Instead, you want to push that responsibility out to the cloud provider to maintain that
for you.
And finally, if your data is already in the cloud, then you want to reduce time and costs
in moving the data to your analysis.
And rather than pulling it down locally to do data science, it's often much more efficient
and much less expensive to do that data science up on the cloud directly right in your data
lake.
So let's talk about a few of these different options.
Again, one of the most common options is doing a hosted service where a vendor provides software
as a service.
We talked about a couple of things our studio does there.
The other very common way of doing this is deploying to a virtual private cloud provider
such as Azure or AWS.
And I'll be touching on that lightly here, but Kevin will be covering that in a lot more
detail in the next section.
Third and closely aligned is cloud marketplace offerings.
Again, that's very similar in some ways to deploying to a VPC.
You're running on the cloud provider's hardware.
But here, typically it's easier to start up and it's done on an hourly basis.
And finally, data science in a data lake such as Qball or Databricks.
So hosted software as service offerings.
Some of the things that really make these offerings great are they're easy to quickly
start up and they streamline collaboration.
So if the members of your team can simply go in, put a credit card in and sign up for
a few dollars a month to access some capabilities, that's an easy way to scale up very quickly.
Now sometimes software as service may have limited functionality compared to on-prem.
So you might not have the full option that you would have if you were to install locally.
And sometimes again, depending on the service, integration with your data internal systems
could be more challenging or perhaps not even possible.
So a couple of offerings that RStudio has in this arena.
We have RStudio Cloud, which is a hosted version of the RStudio Server Pro with the RStudio
IDE.
It makes it easy for anybody to do or share or teach or learn data science using just
your web browser.
So the initial focus right now for RStudio Cloud is primarily as a platform for instructor-led
education.
So if you were doing a workshop in your commercial organization or if you were teaching a class
on data science or statistics at the university level, RStudio Cloud is a great solution for
that.
And we have many organizations using it for that already.
Another great focus for RStudio Cloud right now is enabling academic research by sharing
among different groups.
It's a handy way of doing that.
And there's a lot more that we'll be rolling out in RStudio Cloud over the next several
months.
So some of the great benefits of RStudio Cloud, again, nothing to install locally.
All you need is a browser.
You can share projects that you create there with your team or a class or workshop.
And again, nothing to configure, no hardware installation or anything like that, just a
month-to-month purchase.
And there's various plans available for RStudio Cloud, including free to get started.
ShinyApps.io is another hosted service RStudio provides.
This is a way of securely and scalably sharing your Shiny applications on a hosted service.
And so if you have a Shiny application that you want to share with the world or with a
much smaller group, you can do that quickly on ShinyApps.io.
Again, various plans available there, including free to get started.
You can visit ShinyApps.io to learn more.
The second major area of cloud, second major way of going to the cloud is deploying to
a virtual private cloud provider like AWS or Azure or Google Cloud Platform.
Now some of the advantages of this is that you can pay as you go for the compute resources
specifically.
Typically, if you're deploying to a VPC, you've purchased the license from the vendor already,
though not necessarily, depends on the offering.
Another great advantage here, you get the full functionality of the on-premise software
because typically it is the on-premise software or a close variant of that that's available
on the VPC.
So for example, right now, RStudio Cloud doesn't yet have the ability to provide Jupyter Notebooks
in that environment.
That's one of the things we're working on for the future.
But right now, if you were to deploy RStudio Server Pro to a VPC, you'd have the full functionality
of being able to utilize Jupyter Notebooks and JupyterLab through the same capabilities
that you'd use the RStudio IDE.
VPCs also give you access to specialized hardware like GPUs.
Now on the con side, it can be difficult to maintain.
There's typically more administration overhead.
There's a complexity of things like Kubernetes that you might need to consider.
And Kevin is going to be discussing all this in a lot more detail in the next section.
The other challenge around VPCs is that the cost can be high and variable, that you need
to really manage the compute cost closely to make sure the software is only available
when it's needed.
Otherwise, it can keep running in the background and rack up your compute charges.
Third, and again, closely related, is cloud marketplace offerings.
Instead of installing on your own on a VPC, you go to the AWS or Azure or GCP cloud marketplaces
to spin up software from a vendor.
RStudio has offerings on all those marketplaces.
It's very handy in a lot of ways because it's easy to get started quickly, makes it great
for proof of concepts.
You're paying as you go typically for both compute and software licenses on an hourly
basis.
It's very inexpensive to get started, and again, access to the specialized hardware.
But like deploying to a VPC, you need to make sure you carefully manage the software to
make sure it's only running when you need it.
Otherwise, you could run into excessive hourly charges, which means often, not always, but
often this is best for short-term projects, especially if you're collaborating between
organizations because that's a great way to provide access outside your organization.
And then finally, data science in your data lake.
Great example of a data lake is someone like Qball, a partner for RStudio.
Qball provides a data lake with RStudio Server Pro capabilities built into it.
And some of the advantages here is you can minimize the overhead by running your computations
close to the data, avoiding the cost of moving the data from one cloud to another or down
locally.
It also makes it easy to incorporate data science directly into your data pipeline.
Now on the con side, running your data science in your data lake can add some technical complexity,
can make it a little bit more difficult to do what you want to do, or at least a little
bit more complicated.
And again, you might run into some functionality limitations here that could be challenging,
depending on what the data lake provider and the data science provider have done and how
they're working together technically.
So to sum up this section, ultimately it really depends on what your primary goal is.
And based on your primary goal, you can, different ways of going to the cloud.
Your primary goal is to really minimize cost and maintenance and startup time, then using
a hosted service is often a great way to start there, especially if you have a small team
or really just an individual data scientist.
If you want the full flexibility of an on-prem solution, all the bells and whistles, all
the capabilities, but without maintaining your own hardware, but still having the flexibility
to scale, then deploying to a VPC provider is often the best way to go.
Kevin will be talking more about that next.
If you're doing something that's much more short term, perhaps just a proof of concept,
you don't want to commit to a long time period, offerings on a cloud marketplace by the hour
are often a great way to do that.
And again, if your biggest concern is your data is already in the cloud and you want
to minimize the overhead of moving that data someplace else to analyze it, then often data
science in your data lake is going to be the best approach.
So with that, I'll hand you off to Kevin.
Thank you, Lou, for that really good introduction.
Really appreciate that presentation.
So I want to talk about more along the lines of.
Why why you might want to move to cloud and what are some of the key considerations that
people have when they move to cloud?
So this is a big decision for a lot of organizations to either switch from their on-premise history
or or maybe just expanding their their cloud footprint for the data science teams.
So next slide.
So typically when we meet with clients and we're discussing cloud infrastructure for
various different data science applications and primarily a lot of time we're speaking
about our studio team installations and configurations, we're considering a lot of different things
and the key kind of facts that come up, the key recurring themes that we see coming up
are, you know, first of all, assessing the needs of the team.
You know, how big is their team?
How much power do they need and do they really need the cloud that they need to utilize the
cloud's immense scale?
And do they see a lot of potential future growth or unforeseen growth in the future?
So do they need to be able to scale their their resources over time in an unpredictable
manner?
And this is where cloud is really powerful.
It's quite easy or relatively easy to configure your environments to scale over time.
If you understand where your team is going and what your needs are going to be.
Another key thing is, you know, how am I going to control the cost?
So with infinite scale comes infinitely scaling bills.
So this is a big concern, as as Lou alluded to.
It's a pay as you go model, but unfortunately, that means if you use lots and lots of resources,
you're going to get charged from lots of resources.
So controlling costs is a very key consideration.
It's much more straightforward to control those costs when you when you are the ones
maintaining the physical infrastructure, because you've got a very defined view of what it
can be.
But when you're dealing with virtually unlimited resources, your bills can get out of hand
quite quickly.
So there's different ways that you can mitigate against that.
And we'll talk a little bit more about that.
Another key consideration, we work with a lot of clients in more regulated industries,
whether they're working in industries with proprietary information or maybe they're working
in industries where they handle a lot of very sensitive data around customers.
So PII that, you know, is maybe needs to be treated with a high degree of sensitivity.
And this is a this is a consideration, a key consideration that maybe slows up the adoption
of cloud over time.
So typically, these industries are are lagging behind the more versatile or the more the
more the tech industries that are maybe able to move a little quicker and these don't have
these regulations that they need to consider.
And so they often ask, you know, can I how can I secure my cloud?
And the answer really is as secure as you want to make it.
And we can dive a little bit more deep into that in a few minutes.
Another key consideration is, of course, you're handing over the keys of your infrastructure
to a cloud provider.
And, you know, if you go back as far as the early noughties and the tech boom and there
was plenty of websites that were being hosted by young entrepreneurs in in their in their
home offices or their bedrooms, computers that put on their desks and they were hosting
websites that way.
But with the immense scale of these these cloud infrastructure companies, they're much
more sophisticated organizations.
And while you're handing over the keys to them and they're managing the physical security
of your infrastructure, they're able to benefit from that massive scale to really secure their
infrastructure in a way that is quite difficult to do.
And we can talk a bit more about that.
And then the last one, and this kind of ties back to our first point with regards to scale
and that is, how do I adapt to change and how easy is it to do that?
You know, if if I architect a solution and I build this and all of a sudden I see a huge
uptick in usage and how can I make sure that we can scale our environment for our teams
in an efficient manner so that we don't see any downtime or we don't have very lengthy
delays between making more resources available?
And again, this is somewhere where cloud can really excel if you if you know what you're
doing.
So yeah, thank you.
You can go to the next slide, Lou.
So when we initially engage with our clients, one of the first things we like to talk to
them about is we carry out a series of interviews with their key users and the business users
to try and get a better understanding across all the different products that they're trying
to embed in their team.
So as Lou mentioned, RStudio Pro for the data scientists, the people who are doing the development
work, RStudio Connect, you know, the platform for sharing that information with the users
and Pac-Man for sharing the sorry for controlling the managing the I.T. kind of security and
package management.
So I put together this small matrix just to kind of give some of those considerations
that we'd like to take into account.
So we're looking to understand, you know, let's say if we take, for example, RStudio
Pro, how big is their team?
How many?
What's the makeup of the team?
The context of the team?
Is there a lot of data scientists, people running a lot of simulations?
How variable are the workloads?
What's the kind of size of data they're dealing with?
Are they dealing with very small data in the order of megabytes or they're really a
big data shop who are dealing with petabytes or terabytes of data?
And also the size of the team definitely matters, right?
If you've got a very small team, if you've got a team of five people, you know, you could
probably handle your workloads and a much more simple architecture.
But as you scale up your team or your scale up the size of your data, you might want to
consider more complex approaches.
And that's where Lou was alluding to earlier with the clusters approach with Kubernetes.
And so I've kind of broken it up here.
And you can think about and this is definitely a rule of thumb.
And, you know, your mileage may vary, as they say.
And this all comes out of a result of a series of interviews with your team and understanding
your needs.
But smaller teams, more simple teams would benefit from a simpler approach.
And those are the ones in the yellow zone.
So if you're dealing with relatively small teams with relatively small amounts of data,
you could probably get away with a more basic or simple approach.
Again, taking into consideration how variant is the workloads in those teams, you know,
are you seeing a large differentiation and make an architecture that works for those
as well?
And the same with the red zone, you know, if you're dealing with very large sets of
data or very large teams, you're definitely going to want to consider a more complex approach
because it's just harder to predict what your team is going to be able to do.
So you're maybe going to want to work with a more scalable solution, something that can
flex with the needs of your team over time.
And if you're sitting in that orange area again, you're going to have to think a little
harder about what kind of workloads you're running, how predictable are they?
And you know, you might be sitting somewhere in between the more simple approaches or the
more complex approaches, depending on the type of work that your team does.
Yes, you can go to the next slide, Lou.
So there are a number of different solutions that you can implement in the cloud to implement
your architecture from the very simple to the more complex.
As Lou alluded to, there is something like a quick start image for most cloud providers
in AWS, and I provided some AWS analogous examples throughout this presentation.
In AWS, we have something called an Amazon machine image, and this is just a pre-configured
image where you can quickly spin up the machine and test it out.
So this is better for maybe short term projects or where we typically recommend this be used
is in cases where people really just want to kind of play around with RStudio and see
is it worth investing their time into.
So they can quickly launch it and test it out and get it up and running without too
much work.
And so this is a good for a prototyping phase or just kind of seeing what RStudio is all
about.
If you're maybe new to that or you're maybe new to cloud and seeing does it work well
with your different systems, but it comes at a bit of a premium.
And so, as Lou was saying, you probably want to make sure you don't leave it on all the
time.
You're going to get charged by the hour for your machine and the license fees.
And really, if you're going to go ahead and deploy RStudio in a truly productionized manner
and a serious enterprise situation, you're going to want to consider one of the other
options.
And so the simplest approach you can take is a virtual machine.
Deployed on a VPC in AWS, they have something called the Elastic Complete Cloud, and that's
their virtual machine deployment.
And so EC2 instances, as recalled, you can go ahead and pick all the RAM and CPU requirements
that you need.
Pick the right OS.
That can be a very important consideration for some teams.
If you need a Red Hat Linux environment or do you need to or are you OK with an open
source environment like Ubuntu?
You want to consider then you want to be highly available or not.
And if you need double redundancy, this is this is something we often recommend that
people are working in the cloud is RStudio has a built in load balancer that will distribute
traffic evenly across the different machines.
If you've got multiple machines running, but you can implement some double redundancy,
which is super important for a lot of teams to make sure that if the master goes down,
you don't lose access to your environment.
And so we use load balancers in the cloud and every every major cloud provider has some
version of this.
And this ultimately allows for us to scale our resources vertically so we can or, you
know, you can actually scale it out horizontally as well.
Typically, if you're doing that, we recommend the next approach, which is Kubernetes.
So just for those who may be uninitiated, you know, scaling vertically will be just
increasing the amount of RAM or CPU that your machine has versus scaling horizontally is
simply adding more of the same machine.
But if you're going to go with that approach, we recommend going with a cluster approach.
So if you've got a larger team and you've got variable workloads, you might want to
consider using something like Kubernetes.
And so, again, every cloud provider has their own version of this.
On Amazon, they've got a managed service called Amazon EKS or Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service.
And this is really great for enterprises that have variable workloads.
And also, if you want to version control your environment, you can use Docker to containerize
your solutions, your environment and scale this infinitely to your team's needs.
So if your team grows, you just configure your cluster to grow with your team.
And again, utilize those load balancers.
The final one here that I want to point out, and that's an inbuilt feature that's come
out in our studio in the last couple of years that some people may be aware of, and that's
a server pro launcher.
And this integrates well with Kubernetes.
So what this allows you to do is within your regular environment.
So maybe you've got pretty low compute needs on an everyday basis within your team.
So maybe you don't need an EKS environment.
Maybe you're OK with an EC2 instance.
But every once in a while, you want the ability to scale up your jobs to a much larger scale.
And so that's where Job Launcher can be really effective at allowing power users to run those
heavy workloads without bringing to a halt the base instances.
So if you've got a team of 10 data scientists, they're all working and they're using their
EC2 instance and somebody wants to run a really heavy model training or simulation, they can
utilize this Job Launcher and not take down or tank the entire EC2 instance for everybody
else.
And so it isolates that workload from everybody else in the team.
You can go to the next slide.
So pay as you go, only pay for what you use.
This is one of the great benefits of cloud, but only if you do it right.
You can definitely get this wrong and end up with a big, unexpected bill.
So some of the common mistakes that people see is you over provision your resource, and
this comes down to poor planning.
So you over overestimate your needs and you essentially just by some percentage amount
overspend or have machines set up, an architecture set up that is maybe just a little bit too
much for what you actually needed.
And you can scale that down and if you're monitoring that well.
Another one is poor limit planning.
So most providers will allow you to set limits on your spend or limits on how big you want
your clusters to get or limits on what machines are different people are allowed to use and
stuff like that.
And so if you're not planning that out or if you're not utilizing it at all, like you
say, with clusters, the cluster will grow to as big of a need as the team use.
So if you've got a team of data scientists and you don't have any limits set and they
get carried away with themselves, you could end up with a very large bill at the end of
the month.
And the last one, as you alluded to, is shutting down those unused resources.
So what we see in a lot of teams is they use, you know, elastic MapReduce or they use clusters
and the analysts will turn on their clusters and do their analysis, but they'll forget
to shut it off.
So if they're not using scalable infrastructure and they're setting up a lot of a lot of expensive
machines and they leave it running overnight, you know, that can be a pretty hefty bill
in the morning for somebody if they forgot to turn things off.
So you can you can definitely mitigate against these problems.
So you can be very thoughtful and plan about planning your architecture.
And this is something where we really work a lot with our clients on and making sure
that we spend a lot of time in the planning phase when we're not rushing into implementing
the solutions.
We really want to make sure that the solution that we're architecting for them is right
for them now and right for them six months from now.
So it's the right mix of balancing for what they need today, but also taking into consideration
what are they going to need in the future.
Make sure you're utilizing those budgets and monitoring and alerts.
Be very clever about that and utilize that to the max because that's going to help prevent
any unexpected bills or any surprises.
Categorize your spends.
Make sure that, you know, if you are overspending, you're able to easily pinpoint where in your
system you're you're overspending so you can, you know, isolate that offending instance
or cluster and make mitigating actions to that.
And of course, you need to regularly reassess so, you know, you can plan as much as you
want, but your team's needs are going to change over time.
Maybe your team grows or maybe your team is downsizing a little bit and you can you know,
you can go with a smaller size, but you need to regularly come back to that.
You can go to the next slide.
The next key question is how secure is the cloud?
And like I said earlier, it can really be as secure as you want it to be.
So a lot of people think, oh, well, if I have my physical infrastructure in-house on the
premise, that's the most secure I can be.
But I mean, that's not always the case because you've got to pay for the security within
your own premise.
You've got to pay for security guards.
If you're really concerned about people coming in and doing harm to your infrastructure,
you've got to maintain that infrastructure and you're going to maintain all the firewalls
and security around that.
If you work with the cloud, Amazon and their shared responsibility model or different providers,
they will maintain the security and integrity of those physical machines and they provide
all of the software that you need, that you could possibly need to configure the security.
So really, it can be as secure as you want it to be.
And that is a real caveat because you need to make sure that you're configuring your
solutions to be as secure as your requirements might be.
So if you have a very high security need, you need to scale up your investment in your
architecture appropriately.
In different cloud providers, and I'm going to use AWS again as an example, you've got
different resources.
So you can have a VPC that's completely private with subnets are completely private or or
maybe completely public or maybe a mix of the two.
And you can have different instances in each environment that can speak to each other across
using what are known as an Amazon, an Amazon resource name.
But again, in every cloud provider, you've got this ability to allow services to talk
to each other without having humans have access to those services.
So this is really powerful if you want to utilize serverless technology, maybe have
an entry point that a human can interact with.
But the underlying hardware or data or infrastructure, they can't access.
It's only the actual services on AWS that they do have access that can do that.
So if you go to the next slide, we can see an example of that.
And this is just an example where we've got two VPCs, their private subnets inside of
them.
Ordinarily, these two instances shouldn't be able to interact with each other.
But again, Amazon provide the software.
You can use this VPC peering connection and make sure that these instances are now able
to communicate with each other.
So a malicious actor cannot communicate with these private subnets or the private instances.
But you can actually configure these services to be able to talk to each other.
And that can be really powerful and important for a lot of use cases and making sure that
your different systems across your organization are able to talk to each other without
compromising security.
You can go to the next slide.
Again, just to point out, this is an example here of the AWS shared responsibility model.
And just really to point out that it's up to your organization to configure a secure
environment.
So that's your portion of the shared responsibility model.
AWS will provide and maintain the software and hardware needed to to do all that.
But you need you need to take responsibility for making sure that your privacy and security
is meeting your requirements.
So if you're from a highly regulated industry, you need to consider that.
There's also some government cloud options that if you're working in a government agency,
most providers have an option that's exclusive to the government agencies.
That can be very important as well.
You can go to the next slide.
Again, I want to keep on the track of this shared responsibility model, and we're talking
about the stability of environments.
So if I don't have access or I don't have I don't control my physical infrastructure,
how can I ensure that it's going to be safe, that everything's going to be safeguarded?
And what happens if there is a disaster?
And I'm not going to lose all my data.
I'm going to lose all my services.
And again, you really can take advantage of the scale of the cloud in this in this sense.
So, yes, if you were to architect your solutions poorly, and that's, you know, that's your
portion of the shared responsibility model, you can expose yourself to instability within
the cloud infrastructure.
So you want to make sure when you're architecting your solutions that you're taking advantage
of some of the features that cloud providers have.
So in the case of AWS, they've got many regions around the world, dozens of them, and they're
constantly adding these regions.
And they also then have within those regions many different availability zones.
These are geographically distinct areas within those geographically distinct areas.
And finally, within those, they have data centers.
And these are where your actual machines live.
So if you want to make sure that you don't you aren't hit by a disaster and you lose
all your data or you lose all of your computers or you lose access to your systems, you can
architect solutions that mitigate for that.
And in that way, you know, the cloud can be way more scalable and way more secure and
stable than any on premise solution could ever be if you take advantage of this cloud.
And that means you just got to architect it carefully.
And if you go to the next slide, we can have a look here and you can see, yeah, we can
go and we can make sure if we if we need if we have a global team and we want this highly
available environment, we want to make sure that we've got our our our systems mirrored
across many different regions.
So that means if something happens in the Oregon region and one of the data centers
experiences a big outage, which can happen, it's OK because we've got a mirrored environment
inside of North Virginia.
And so our analysts, our data scientists can continue to do their work.
You also want to make sure you're setting up disaster recovery effectively so that,
you know, if you if you do have one region, still make sure you're backing up your data
in separate areas, especially if you've got mission critical information in your
infrastructure.
So just making it, you know, just making that point that, you know, data centers can
fare, can fail.
Machines can fail.
This is the reality.
Cloud providers take advantage of that scale and the expertise they have in-house to mitigate
against that and reduce that down as much as they can.
But it's on you to make sure that you architect solutions that also prevents that as much
as possible.
OK, you can go to the next slide, Lou.
And yeah, there's just closing remarks then on architecting on cloud and the different
solutions, just tying back to, again, that idea of of scale and you can plan as well
as you want and you can build your team out or you can plan your architectures as well
as you want around your current needs and maybe even project your needs a little bit
into the future.
But oftentimes what we see is people want to be very conservative.
They're like, oh, I don't know how this is going to get adopted.
And then lo and behold, because it's such great software, especially our studio team
connected is something that sees a great a lot of adoption once it starts getting circulated
within organizations.
Suddenly your demand for those services will spike.
And so you want to be able to respond to that effectively.
Now, if you're using on premise servers, you're using physical infrastructure in your
house.
That means you got to go and you got to call up your your hardware provider and order new
machines and have them shipped to your site and then have your IT team install them and
configure them and install the software on them.
And it's a it's a time lag.
So you're adding weeks onto your process with cloud.
If you're clever and you've automated your deployments in an effective way, which you
can do with stuff like cloud formation, it means that, yeah, I can I can scale up my
architecture as quickly as I want to get it scaled up and take advantage of that infinite
scale in the team.
So if you're planning on a lot of scale, you know, consider that maybe you need to use
a clustered approach if you if you think your team's really going to grow or just just be
aware of the different the different growth that your team might experience and take advantage
of the monitoring that different cloud providers have to monitor that usage.
You know, in AWS, you have cloud watch.
You can really monitor that, monitor that.
And our studio professional has inbuilt monitoring so you can build custom monitoring solutions,
but keep a close eye on on usage patterns and understand when you need to scale it up.
And then if you've got a clever architect or cloud cloud engineer, you can easily scale
up your your solutions with without that time lag of ordering and procuring that physical
infrastructure.
And I think that's the last slide, if you go to the next one, just to highlight that,
as I mentioned throughout, you are a full service partner with our studio.
What that means for us is it means we're licensed to resell the different studio products.
But we also do training and implementation and configuration of our studio team environment.
So we work with clients to architect their solutions.
And we have people then who are qualified and trained to go in and install and configure
those solutions and maintain those solutions over a long period of time as teams learn
to control their own environments.
And that is the end of the presentation, Lou.
Great.
Thanks, Kevin.
And just a quick word on our studio.
I'm sure you know who our studio is if you're listening to this webinar, but you might know
us best through open source work.
Things like creating and maintaining the tidyverse set of packages to make R easier to use and
easier to learn.
Tiny applications for creating web based applications from R.
R Markdown to deliver, you know, essentially R notebooks to deliver reproducible, interactive
R based reports and presentations and documents, as well as our IDE.
And certainly creating and supporting this open source software is and will continue
to be our studio's core mission.
In fact, we announced earlier this year that we've reorganized ourselves as a public benefit
corporation, which means that now our open source mission, our commitment to this is
codified into our business charter and all our decisions as an organization must balance
the interests of all our stakeholders, including our community, our customers and our employees.
But an important point is the pro products that I was talking about at the beginning
of the session, our studio team really fund our open source mission.
So that means by buying our products, not only do you get the tools you need to help
scale out your open source data science investments, but you're also helping support the open
source data science community.
And if you haven't seen it, I strongly encourage you to check out the keynote from JJ, our
CEO and founder, recorded at the last RStudio Conf, where he talks about our announcement
around being a public benefit corporation and really the philosophy of who RStudio is
and where we're going.
And of course, in addition to our open source software being used by millions of people
every week, we have thousands of active commercial software customers, including 59% of the
Fortune 100.
And we're trusted by many of the world's leading brands.
And so with that, Kevin and I'd be happy to answer as many questions as we can in the
time remaining.
Wonderful.
Thank you so much, Lou and Kevin.
That was really informative.
It looks like we have enough time for me for two, maybe three questions.
So I'll go ahead and just dive right in.
I'll start off with the first one.
I think this is going to be for it looks like it'll be for Kevin here.
And how can you figure out the compute power that you or your team needs if you have not
done it before?
If you're just getting started?
That's a really good question, and there is guidance on RStudio, and we actually have
a recorded webinar that I think might be shared out as well, Samantha, that goes deeper into
the compute power configuration.
So we did a recorded webinar on architecting your solutions for the cloud, where we deep
dive into how you can configure that.
But there is guidance on how you can configure your solutions.
And but there is guidance on the RStudio documentation on the minimum requirements.
But I'm going to go ahead and assume that maybe the minimum requirements aren't suitable
for you.
And so, yeah, if you actually want to get started, you're just interested in learning
how you can do this, how you can kind of get a good estimate.
We actually have a free tool that you can go on to.
You can sign up on chorus.pacogia.com.
And on there, there's an Acuna auto architecture tool.
And this allows you to just go in and fill out a form.
It's got some basic questions, and it'll spit out then at the end when you submit your
form suggested architecture.
So what machine sizes it recommends based off the input that you give.
And it's in beta form at the moment.
My engineers would want me to caveat with that.
So we'll give you a rough estimate.
Definitely don't implement straight away, but, you know, take that as a good first stab
and then optimize from there.
But that could be a really good starting point is, you know, fill out that questionnaire,
generate an architecture from that, you know, with different recommended machine sizes and
types and architectural diagrams that go along with that.
And it even comes with some Terraform scripts that can help you quick start on AWS if you're
interested in AWS as a platform.
And but other than that, it's a it's really a discussion.
It's a you've got to consider how much RAM you're going to need.
You know, if we're to get into the formulaic part of it, you know, if you've got a lot
of data that you're processing and you're doing a lot of linear algebra and then RAM
requirements are going to be very important.
CPUs are going to be very important if you've got a lot of concurrent users.
And so there's lots of considerations that go into what are the different specs that
you might need inside of your machine.
Excellent.
Thank you, Kevin.
I think that's really helpful.
And then one more question.
So in the context of sharing code, et cetera, and even the data, what are some best practices
for working with U.S. government requirements?
Most of in this question, they say all of our projects are physically siloed, even in
our own VPC and do not share space.
So, Kevin or Lou, what would be some best practices you might recommend here?
I can actually go give a brief description because we have been working with a client
similar to that recently.
And yeah, I feel the pain.
There is a lot of restrictions on the environments.
And so thankfully, these organizations are kind of becoming more open to the cloud, which
makes things easier.
And it really just comes down to, I think, if you're working with government data, most
cloud providers, as I mentioned, have a government cloud option where the servers are completely
isolated from the public infrastructure.
So only government agencies have access to this.
So you might want to utilize one of those if you're moving to the cloud.
And as far as like sharing data information, we've actually been helping a client come
up with a virtual cleanroom scenario.
So as you mentioned, you know, how can you keep how can you isolate data and code and
stuff like that from from people?
Because you don't want everybody have access to that data.
You don't have every access to your proprietary code.
And there's a lot of privacy concerns there.
So you can utilize something like Kubernetes to containerize your solutions and Windows
containerized solutions configure all the privacy requirements that you need.
And if you can imagine like a push button exercise where somebody presses a button and
it automatically launches a container that has all the access pre-configured and associated
with their profile.
So that's what we call a virtual cleanroom.
So it essentially means that everybody who's working off this environment is completely,
you know, they're getting like a fresh, clean install, completely unperturbed by anybody
else's sessions.
And so it's completely independent of everybody else.
And it's only being used by them.
And it only has access to the data that their profile should allow them to have access to.
So that's that's one way we're looking at helping clients at the moment.
And one of the best practices.
Yeah, I can see right now our future best practices.
So it's a really exciting project.